All right guys welcome back.
So this lecture I'm going to do is I'm going to use Final Cut Pro.
We learned how to use in the last lecture and I'm going to create a video that I can then post on Instagram
for innovation station.
Well before we establish what the content strategy was for innovation station it's a lot of videos obviously
but what is primarily going to be is highlighting innovation new technologies gadgets and just things.
A lot of it will be medical chemical and laboratory science things like that.
Now the style that I was probably going to go after was a very common style where you just see a video
clip followed by video clip video that you and you just have techs kind of popping up explaining what
you're seeing and either it's explaining the video clip or the video clip is just a way to fill in kind
of the mental image of what you're supposed to be imagining while you're reading the text.
OK.
I'm sure you've seen these a lot of people on Facebook.
We'll share them on Instagram.
They're there all the time.
You look at some of the accounts that we kind of stock with innovations station.
They do the same thing it's just clip tax cut tax cut.
And it is a.
It's incredibly effective to understand that they're only working with the real estate of a phone screen
and you're trying to explain something that isn't you someone up in an image Kelleys you can't get the
appreciation of it from an image.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take one thing that I've found and or make a video out of it.
All right.
They're digging around and I found this and what it was a team in Maryland has made a figure a way to
take wood and pull out the humo cellulose out of it which just makes it this fiber grid and that removes
the color of the wood and removes the density of the wood which means it's a much lighter wood but then
it becomes effectively like an insulator and replacement for Styrofoam.
So if you take would you remove it.
Now you have styrofoam surfaces notorious because it doesn't biodegrade and it's just everywhere.
I think there's a stat I saw somewhere that was 25 billion cups a year or thrown away sorry if cops
thrown away in the US alone.
So kind of a big deal.
Well there aren't and so if you can figure this out they'll be kind of interesting.
I think that something worth highlighting so I scratched down some notes over here after reading about
it.
I grab some interesting facts but some sources.
And then I planned out the text here.
So I kind of just I just kind of thought of it like how you know how many different points can I do.
And so I came up with seven points and I listed them off and then I just kind of gave a loose idea of
what kind of an image I thought.
So at the beginning I'm going to introduce it by saying it's a team at the University of Maryland they've
invented a new type of light weight would then get into the details like explaining how do they do it.
What is it then how does it actually.
What does it matter.
Why do we care.
Ben this is the alternative why styrofoam is bad then it's you know what are the main benefits of it.
And then I'll go on to like tradition.
Other possible uses for it.
And then maybe some just interesting facts.
OK so I kind of pulled these out of it.
It's called Nano wood.
Styrofoam makes up 30 percent of worldwide landfills.
Those interesting takes 500 years to biodegrade so they're going on the ground it's not going anywhere.
It is actually better at insulating houses than traditional fiberglass and wool and it's retains more
heat energy than silica aerogel which is the world's best insulator and the Guinness Book of World Records
said they're the best the best insulator I don't know why.
Guinness Book of World Records.
But regardless that's interesting.
OK.
So that's what I'm going to put in and then I just need to find clips for this.
Well where does focusing on making the video and really sourcing it.
But I can show you where I found the videos.
So what I did was I went to video pixel's home.
Remember we covered those stock video places.
This is where I got most of them.
So my first shot called for trees and forest.
So I just said Drees.
OK.
And I looked through it and I was like OK what really gets across the point that I'm trying to make
which is I'm highlighting trees because we're talking about wood right.
I could just say wood but I just wouldn't really work the same.
I'm trying to go for them.
It looks good.
It was just like wood blocks.
Then you might be implying construction which is not really what I'm talking about.
So this is the way I actually ended up picking.
OK.
And the next one was remove this from making it soft and light.
So I just googled their thing and I found photos of them holding it.
OK.
Smithsonian.
There was this so there images for this.
OK.
I think I could use these potentially in it.
I don't know.
Thinking is that the resolution size might not be large enough so we can look at it's like 20 killable.
OK maybe.
And then what I did was the image of team or people using trash I found a lot of pectorals landfill
for whatever reason pencils didn't have it.
So what I'm doing was I went to all the free stock and free Stockdale's videos although their site is
kind of screwed up when it comes to videos.
They just give you lists of video sites.
So really it's just like a linked directory more than anything.
But I found it on one of these I don't remember which one it wasn't even video or something video I
remember but all the other ones I found so laboratory kind of pixels construction of a house actually
I found on YouTube.
So I just went to YouTube and I put house construction
house construction and I just used one of these timelapse is.
And what you can do actually on YouTube is go here to filter and then change the features so filter
by something that's at least HD.
I believe it's at least HD and then there's four OK but we don't need for you to be honest.
We just want at least HD so this can help you because sometimes you get stuck with a perfect video but
the video is just way too low quality and then it's just a huge pain.
The next thing was insulation construction and I was just going to use for that one.
That was a photo of a video of cold weather.
That was it.
I mean in a pinch I can use a photo that's pretty easy and I'll show you how to make those not look
like crap but video is always better than not video.
OK.
So we will hop in Final Cut Pro and then create a new project called Nano.
Good.
OK.
Now you're here.
So what I want to do is I want to do it in each individual segment so I need to get these into the timeline
in order.
So I want the trees in the forest.
I will go to the images that I collected.
It's going to start with trees then moving on to the actual image of the wood.
I downloaded it so pull it out of the download folder.
You go just then and I would think that's most relevant when you put an image into the timeline of Final
Cut.
It's an image.
So it doesn't have a length.
So you can do anything you want with a link length it always makes it automatically something like six
seconds or something.
Then I have a photo of someone throwing some stuff in the trash.
And OK I'm just going to throw these all into it and I'll catch you in a second.
OK so you'll notice that it actually says it ends up being eight minutes.
Now that I've actually thrown them all in but that's not correct you have to be a minute.
Right.
Well it would end up happening was I found clips that were not just the clips I wanted like on YouTube
for instance I did get a photo of a landfill for some reason I couldn't find one anywhere else.
So I just grabbed a documentary that had it and then threw it in and I just sorted by it.
You know the HD and I checked it it wasn't something that's probably going to be copyrighted.
And same thing on here on YouTube we have the timeline.
So what I have to do is basically scrub through this and pick the part that I think matches what I'm
talking about the most.
So for this like a landfill the landfill is supposed to be showing up wallets saying styrofoam makes
up 30 percent of worldwide landfills six or five years degree.
Well can't really find styrofoam specifically for an image which is fine just to show a landfill because
that's gross and that's what you care about.
Right.
So I just scrub through it.
What gets the point across.
I think that probably section right there.
See said that is five seconds but read because that's about five seconds of footage or use that typically
I don't like it to change clips like change orientation or shots in the same little clip because it
could just be a little jarring but that's always something you can tweak after the fact.
So if you want to cut the clip didn't actually cut this and the other UI lecture you just how you can
either be what I do and it turns in a razor and then when I click somewhere it cuts it.
It controls the if I don't go back.
Or there's actually a button right here.
So you find the Boid right there and then it gives you the boy.
Usually you're on the select mode you the boy.
OK.
So you go to here start there and then mumble law
OK and then I'll delete the stuff I don't want.
OK.
Now moving on to the house construction.
I just want to find a shop that has the most action and gets the point across and say like three or
four seconds this can be a little noxious because it's light keeps changing.
You know is this a time lapse.
It's kind of OK so it needs the construction of a house that needs to be looked like it's being in there
need to be able to recognize its house.
Can't really tell there.
But then here it doesn't look like they're constructing it necessarily at a glance.
Looks like it's done.
So this is probably the best spot to do that.
So grab that.
This is be hard to put text on just because the background colors is changing so much.
And the last one was cold weather and I'll add that when I come to it.
OK.
Next thing just do some housecleaning.
Getting rid of the audio because I don't want audio from these videos.
OK so now we're at two minutes total.
OK.
So realistically what's going to happen is I'll just cut everything to the same length and then re watch
it at the very end to see if the timing works because if the timing works and ok cool but otherwise
I can always change it.
Now one final finally for this nice is like say if I only want it half the trees I cut it right there
and then delete this.
But if I want it back and I'm like oh crap or did you just grab the edge intellectually just bring it
right back.
So that's pretty useful.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to say that each text block needs hardly three and a half seconds
probably three to four seconds.
So I'm going to stop it for this first one.
Say four seconds.
And then the next time around eight six.
This will get to about 8:00 ish.
And on this one.
This is kind of annoying because it you like at first you don't really know what the hell you're looking
at because it just has this glut of nothing happening.
So I'm going to trim this stuff down and I'll see you in just a second.
OK.
So what I have here is about thirty five seconds eight seven seconds I could shave it down on the last
wrong but I think this is pretty good actually.
You remember that audio but for the most part this will match that story line that I made.
The rest it'll just be kind of figuring out they're going to be longer.
I tried to grab clips that made the most sense like this was the most visceral like trying to shoot
trash trash is bad as you we're talking about.
So there you go.
I picked this part of the house construction because you can see them putting a roof on.
So the only part you can actually see the most things happening.
And then here I just picked this because there wasn't a car coming by access although that was distracting.
So between those I know it's good.
Now why did you decide on our transitions and text like the lower thirds so.
Well probably.
Do you think we'll go with text first.
So over to text.
Ok now I'm just going to do custom tax because I don't really want to deal with the pre-made stuff.
Easier to control it when it's you're doing it yourself.
OK so you have custom text here.
Well I'd probably go with open sand's because that.
Well no actually I think you doomed to the other one that where you use an actual logo.
So I'll try to do you two instead.
See how it looks and it doesn't work we can pick another one.
There you go.
There is a boom to cool hats.
So typically you see them on the bottom left top right sometimes coming down the center but it's not
that common.
So we will see the bottom left from now.
Now let's use the text that we made in.
So we want to make the text large enough to read it but we don't make it so there's so much text you
just can't.
You're having trouble even seeing it.
That's that would be an issue.
So what I'm gonna do is make a shape and have that shape come in and then have the text sitting on it
and I'm thinking that the shape and I could use one of these generators these structures that they give
to these textures they give you or I just use a generic shape.
I think that's what I'm going to do.
So you go all in good shape you know doing a shape we want to text and on top of it so we put the shape
below it.
Now automatically It starts with the circle but we never go to the inspector and then we just close
like the outline and fill is white.
So now you pick a color from our go
OK so I want to pick a color I have the hex codes.
So I go here.
See what we've got.
What I can do after I see the colors if I want to use them over and over again I can stick them over
in these little premade slots.
I can just grab them easily later.
And as I'm doing it's also nice because I can see what contrasts with the text
OK let's put it actually in a shape that makes sense.
A rectangle Okay now what looks the best the rest of what's going on
and just go with that.
Once you see how it works you and change colors later.
OK.
An.
That the shape doesn't persist past this clip so I'll just use this to pop up and then move on to the
next one really the next pop up.
OK.
So I'm coming out of the corner.
You want to be conservative with the amount of space we have to use so we can actually see what's going
on in the background.
So using this little modifier here you know control t changing the size of the.
That's pretty good.
Terms of sizing have a little wine that issue.
But see what we can do is go to alignment in the text.
OK.
So you can left align it right aligned.
There there's some weird bugs so that if you write a line it sometimes it cuts off taxi kind of just
finagle it didn't know that hundreds of people worked on the software and still can't figure this out
for some reason.
So they're you know we went on a poll the tech said a little bit more are those sheeple that more now
we can preview how that looks.
It's not bad.
I think the color we're seeing the text for most part works maybe a little bit Kramm to do is play with
the opacity of the back shape the video should be at the bottom.
I don't really know how useful it is it's just going to depend on how hard it makes reading.
I think a little bit of opacities helpful because it doesn't mean having the background.